you
[Music]
more than a quarter century ago
ABC introduced us to twin pigs the rainy
Washington town was home to log ladies
red rooms in at least one murderer but
if you were only watching to find out
who killed Laura Palmer you were missing
out prepare yourself to bring back to
Twin Peaks tonight because you're
watching her they changed new episode
and here's some mind-blowing facts about
the hilarious twin Hicks creators David
Lynch and Mark frost Rotom Marilyn
Monroe script first there Lynch and Mark
Ross met while working on an adaptation
of Anthony Thomas Marilyn Monroe
biography cordis their script was titled
Venus descending and ultimately
suggested that the Kennedys were the
true cause of hundreds death although
Linton flaws changed the protagonists
name - Roslyn Ramsey studios will weary
of bankrolling of a movie with that
conclusion the movie never got made but
Lynch and frost managed to work elements
of goddess in Monroe's life into twin
peaks there is an implicit connection in
the story of flower palma a blonde
homecoming queen who has an affair with
a high-powered man and winds up dead and
there is a much more explicit reference
in Dale Cooper says JFK musings - Diane
the Shan was originally certain and cold
North Dakota Twin Peaks takes place in
Washington State but befool engine
frozen soft on the Pacific Northwest
they conceded the heartland the original
title for the show was North Dakota
Prasad in an interview with inside Twin
Peaks we were playing with this idea of
the plains a place far away from the
world but would we really lagged was
that sense of mystery in the forest in
the darkness that moving it a little
further west head
cheryl-lea was only supposed to be a
party sharon lee who played both Lara
Palma and her look-alike cousin Maddy
Ferguson was initially hired for a
wordless camere as Lynch explained in
Lynn challenge the plan was to cast a
local girl in Seattle
daya's King grey in simple useful for
the scene where Laura's body washes up
on shore but once they gave Lee another
small scene and picking with Donna that
a Flynn Boyle Lynch was impressed with
her acting ability and gave her regular
serious work as Maddie the one-armed man
was a huge atif home age another actor
who was only meant to appear in the
pilot the one-armed man Mike was only
required to walk out of an elevator in
the original script all ancient Frost
wanted was a quick intriguing fugitive
homage but Lynch was also a fan of actor
else trouble so he wrote him into the
larger mythology of the series Isabella
Rossellini almost played Jonesy Packham
Lynch's blue velvet leading lady and
then girlfriend Isabella Cellini was the
first choice for wealthy widow Josie
Packard
but according to Ross Shalini it was a
little bit of concern about the time
commitment Shane Lynch broke up in 1991
instead the part went to John Chan and
Josie was rewritten to fit chances
Chinese background several characters
are named to film noir figures critics
were quick to point out that Maddie you
Madeleine Ferguson shared a first name
with one of Kim Novak's two characters
in vertical another tale of a dead
blonde on her brunette doppelganger and
the last name with Jimmy Stewart's
vertical character Scottie Ferguson
there is also an insurance agent on Twin
Peaks named Horton F Fred MacMurray is
character in double indemnity yet named
dr. leader care Clifton webs is
character Laura a minor bird named Waldo
also Clifton webs care
to Laura and an FBI regional garage
chief named Gordon Cole but more houses
as character in sons and Bulova the last
one is especially amusing since Twin
Peaks is Gordon Cole was played by a
ninja who has repeatedly cited Sunset
Boulevard is favorite movies bob was
spontaneously cast from the crib Frank
Silva portrayed the terrifying specter
Bob but he didn't get the role through
traditional means Silva was already
serving as the show sad decorator
when Lynch got an idea he had note his
silver moving furniture around Laura
Palmer s bedroom and asked if he would
crouch down by her bed the short silver
down there staring directly at the
camera
Lynch wasn't sure how she was going to
use that footage until he discovered
that silver had also accidentally shown
up in the mirror
fearing Sarah pomace tormented visions
with that Bob was officially born Dale
coupe and Harry Truman share names with
Washington legends one of the most
enduring figures in Washington state law
is DB cooper the hijacker who parachuted
out of a CSO bound plane with stone cash
and vanished into thin air
you could also refer to Twin Peaks as
perk investigator Dale Cooper as DB
cooper considering his middle name is
Bartholomew and then there is sheriff
Harry Truman Nana he is not a reference
to Harry Truman who became president he
is a nod to Harry Truman who refused to
leave his Lodge during the 1980 eruption
of Mount st. Helens
actors had to sell their lines awkward
in the Red Room the Red Room sequences
were know to do for several reasons a
dancing man from another place a life
Laura Palmer who tell Cooper but the
pisser way everyone spoke made the
biggest impression this wasn't achieved
through a simple distortion trick the
actors had to learn and recite all their
lines backwards then those lines were
played backwards
making them correct again my hotel
Anderson who played the man from another
place gave a quick demo on the DVDs the
broad room floor matches the one in the
eraser had Lynch reference his own work
through his long interior decorating
decision in the Red Room the six our
crew pattern mirrors the one sin hen
misses a problem he'll be in the race
ahead Lynch hisses 1977 horror film
Piper Laurie masqueraded as a Japanese
actor and said in terms of Twin Peaks
plot lines Catherine Martin impersonated
a Japanese businessman is actually on
the Seine and a spectrum but Catherine
wasn't the only person pretending to
keep the characters fate under wraps
Lynch asked actress Parker Laurie if she
would herself pose as a Japanese actor
and sad to keep the rest of the cast in
the dark she posed as fumer Yamaguchi a
well-regarded actor who had worked with
Akira Kurosawa and did not speak much
English because seemed to buy it at
first
thou the grew suspicious as they shared
most scenes with mr. Yamaguchi Peggy
Lipton was convinced it was Ross leaned
in heavy makeup
[Music]
Lara Flynn Boyle put an end to Dale in
orders his Romans so many viewers the
biggest question was surprisingly
straightforward what happened with Dale
and Audrey the show seemed to be teasing
a romance only to abruptly introduce new
love interest for both characters frost
Alec Lee suggested that a certain cast
member wasn't happy with the coupling in
an interview with EE after uses that
modern rock show
sherilyn fenn who played audrey was mu
blunt about it what happened was that
Lara Flynn Boyle was dating Kyle
MacLachlan
and she was mad that my character was
getting more attention so then Kyle
started saying that his character
shouldn't be with my character because
it doesn't look good cuz I'm too young
then told The AV Club literally because
of that they brought in Heather Graham
who's younger than I am for him and
Billy Zane for me and was not happy
about it he was stupid
Mihal go be Gorbachev was a logically
super fan when reflections in oral
history of Twin Peaks was published in
Twitter latched especially hard onto an
anecdote from TV exact rules harm of its
high blades worked for arm styling
productions which produced Twin Peaks
one day he put a call from spelling
demanding to know who killed Laura
Palmer but it wasn't really stalling he
was asking he had gotten a call from
financier Carl Lindner who claimed to be
calling on behalf of them President
George HW Bush who was actually asking
for me he'll go battle the former leader
of the USSR was apparently a huge fan of
the show but when he was press traitor
Kirchhoff claimed he had no idea what
Twin Peaks was which all sounds
appropriately lynchin
[Music]
smash that like button if you enjoyed
our today's review subscribe for more
and share this video
take care friends
[Music]
you